---
layout: electrical-design
title: CAN Interface
---

The CAN interface is acheived using an [NXP
TJA1048](http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/TJA1048.pdf), a dual-channel
CAN transceiver. This is a part recommended by Ford engineers for it's
reliablity and robustness. The only hard requirement of this transceiver is
that it have a standby mode, and some way to wake up the microcontroller when
the CAN bus comes out of standby. Aside from the CAN signals, the TJA1048 also
has one standby input per channel - pulling each line low will put it's
respective CAN channel into standby mode. These are routed to P0.19 for CAN
Channel 1, and P0.6 for CAN Channel 2.

Some support electronics are required on the vehicle side of the CAN
transceiver. D4 and D5 provide additional ESD protection against voltage spikes
on the CAN line - each
[PESD1CAN](http://www.nxp.com/documents/data_sheet/PESD1CAN.pdf) can provide up
to 200W of peak dissipation and ESD protection up to 23kV. R1 and R2 provide
termination resistance for the CAN Bus. If the VI is acting as a termiantion
point for a bench testing CAN rig, these resistors may need to be connected
across the HI and LO wires of each CAN bus. SJ1 and SJ2 are closed by default,
enabling this termination. If this termination is not needed, the solder jumpers
can be cut (see [this issue](https://github.com/openxc/reference-vi/issues/9)).
Finally, each CAN signal has a 100pF bypass capacitor very close to the OBD
connector, to shunt high frequency noise to ground.

The CAN bus doesn't particularly require a high speed PCB design, since the rate
is only 1Mbps at most and 500Kbps in practice. However, an attempt was made to
maintain the characteristic 120 ohm differential impedance on the CAN lines
(Note: this is a mistake in the design, as the termiation resistance should be
left to the vehicle's bus in normal operation - see [issue #21](https://github.com/openxc/reference-vi/issues/21)). An
attempt was also made to maintain a 45 mil guard band around each CAN bus, to
keep high frequency switching transients from coupling onto the CAN bus. The
guard band was also applied to the LPC1769 side of the CAN transciever, to keep
the same transients out of the converted CAN signals. Since the layout is only 2
layers and very crowded, this wasn't implemented perfectly, but seems to be
within 85% coverage. The combination of these considerations means that the CAN
interface should be highly resilient to noise and should limit signal distortion
due to reflections and other transmission line phenomena.

All CAN transceiver options we considered:

* NXP TJA1040 (or other NXP model, but this is supposedly best for being able to
  suspend)
* MCP2551 - Single CAN transceiver (not recommended need 2)
* NXP TJA1048T - Dual-CAN transceiver (recommended)
  * about 10 cents more expensive than 2 single CAN transceivers
