---
layout: electrical-design
title: Power Supply
---

The VI uses two heavy-duty low dropout linear regulators to
convert the unpredictable +12V automotive power source to the +5V and +3.3V
rails needed by the MCU and related ICs.  Incoming power is protected from
overvoltage by D3, a [SMBJ16CA](http://www.fairchildsemi.com/ds/SM/SMBJ16CA.pdf)
Transient Voltage Suppressor (TVS) diode.  D3 will protect the interface from
any voltage over 19.7V (Vbr).  The power regulators can handle up to
40V.  Reverse voltage is
protected by D1.  Both regulators do not require any additional current or
temperature protection - they can safely drive into a short circuit at
temperatures up to 150 degrees C, and will limit current if they become too hot.
Plenty of bulk and bypass capacitance has been provided to absorb automotive
power transients.

The regulators are cascaded such that the +5V rail supplies the +3.3V rail.  The
TLE4284DV33 has a maximum voltage drop of 1.4V, so it can be safely powered by
any source above 4.7V.  While this puts additional load on the +5V rail, it also
allows the interface to be powered either by the OBD-II connector or the
MicroUSB port.  Both regulators can deliver current up to 1.6A.  Current budget:

* 5V regulator capacity: 1600mA
* USB Charging Limit (fuse): 1000mA
* RN-41 average TX rate: 60mA
* LPC1769 Base consumption @ 100MHz: 50mA
* LPC1769 peripherals (2xCAN+2xUART): 3mA
* Both RGB LEDs on at full: 60mA
* TJA1048T both channels dominant: 140mA
* Total: 1313mA

This yields a headroom of ~300mA when all peripherals are active and a Tablet is
charging at 1A.

### Power Input/Output

The VI has the following power connections:

* OBD-II Automotive Power: Input @ 12V
* External Accessory Power Connector: Output @ 12V up to 5A
* USB Micro Connector: Input OR Output @ 5V up to 1A

The external accessory power connector is controlled by a [TPS2421-2
power switch with
internal MOSFET](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/tps2421-2.pdf).  This allows
the external accessory power to be disabled when the vehicle is turned
off, as well as
providing current protection.  The power switch has an active 5A limit, and will
actively attempt to re-engage power when the limit is tripped ("retry on
fault").

The USB micro connector is directly connected to the +5V bus through a fuse.
The lack of a diode means that the connected USB device can either consume or
supply current.  If a PC is connected to the USB micro connector, it will power
the 3.3V regulator and the +5V regulator will be bypassed.  If an Android tablet
is connected that supports USB OTG charging, it will be allowed to consume +5V
power.  A resettable fuse (F1) has been added to protect the VI
from a bad USB cable or USB host.  The fuse is a [Bourns
MF-MSMF110/16-2](http://www.bourns.com/pdfs/mfmsmf.pdf).  The fuse will
automatically reset when power is removed and the fuse is allowed to cool off.
This has an added downside of temperature dependence - the fuse can only pass
the full 1A of current up to 40 degrees C.  Above that temperature the limit
slowly decreases - see the datasheet for a thermal derating chart.

