---
layout: assembly
title: PCB Assembly Sources
---

### Assembly Files

The assembly files are generated from the [schematics and board layout source
files](/electrical/sources/index.html) which were created in CADsoft EAGLE.

The files are all [stored in a Git repository at
GitHub](https://github.com/openxc/reference-vi/tree/gh-pages/assembly/electrical).

* [Board Layout DXF](/assembly/electrical/vehicle-interface.dxf)
* [Gerber files](https://github.com/openxc/reference-vi/raw/gh-pages/assembly/electrical)
    * .top  Top Copper Layer
    * .smt  Top Soldermask
    * .slk  Top Silkscreen
    * .tsp  Top Solderpaste
    * .bot  Bottom Copper Layer
    * .smb  Bottom Soldermask
    * .bsk  Bottom Silkscreen
    * .bsp  Bottom Solderpaste
    * .oln PCB Outline
    * .drd  Excellon Drill Data
    * .drl  Basic Drill tool information
    * .dri  Extended Drill tool information

### Special Assembly Instructions

* See NOTES: on ASSY drawings for general notes
* Ensure no excess solder is wicked into J0 (USB Micro Connector).  Verify a USB
  Micro cable can successfully connect
* Ensure J0 (USB Micro Connector) is completely flush to the PCB before/after
  reflow.  Ensure pins at rear of connector are not lifted off pads.
* Apply epoxy to J0 for additional structural rigidity
* Ensure J2 (OBD-II connector) pins are flush with PCB before soldering
* Ensure J2 (OBD-II connector) is horizontal to PCB before soldering
* LED1 and LED4 (through hole RGB LEDs) must be bent 90 degrees towards front
  edge of PCB
* Ensure both through hole electrolytic capacitors (C2 and C3) are flush against
  PCB before soldering.
* Ensure part Q2 (12MHz crystal) is oriented such that the long dimension
  follows the centerline on the silkscreen layer.

### Assembly file output instructions

If you modify the schematics and need to regenerate the assembly files, follow
these instructions.

* Verify silkscreen and PCB Frame artwork reflects accurate revision
* Update layers 125 and 126 - text on top of each component should identify the
  part designator
* Delete all content on layer (144) DrillLegend
* run "drillegend.ulp": Use all default values, click OK.
* Reselect layer (144) and move the newly created drill legend back onto the
  frame
* Verify SSC-EAGLE-2Lyr_v1.0.0.3.dru is loaded as current design rules file
* Turn on all copper and stopmask layers, turn off silkscreen layers (skip
  silkscreen error checking, silkscreen will be clipped by assembly house)
* Preform DRC/ERC check
* run "drillcfg.ulp": select "Inch" as output format.  Click OK.  Save.
* run "excellon.cam" in the CAM processor, click "Process Job"
* run "2LPlus-Sunstone.cam" in the CAM processor, click "Process Job"
* Double check all gerber files using a gerber file viewer (like gerbv).
* Deselect all layers, select only the following layers: (17)Pads, (18)Vias,
  (20)Dimension, (21)tPlace, (22)bPlace, (23)tOrigins, (24)bOrigins,
  (49)Reference, (51)tDocu, (52)bDocu, (125)tAssy, (126)bAssy
* run "dxf.ulp": deselect "Fill Areas", make sure "mm" is selected under the
  "units" header.  Save the DXF file.
* Deselect all layers, select only the following layers: (17)Pads, (18)Vias,
  (20)Dimension, (21)tPlace, (23)tOrigins, (48)Document, (49)Reference,
  (51)tDocu, (125)tAssy, (144)DrillLegend
* Hit print (Ctrl+P), select "Print to File (PDF)" as the printer, select
  vehicle-interface_ASSY_TOP.pdf, paper size A4, scale factor 1.  Click OK.
* Deselect all layers, select only the following layers: (17)Pads, (18)Vias,
  (20)Dimension, (22)bPlace, (24)bOrigins, (48)Document, (49)Reference,
  (52)bDocu, (126)bAssy, (144)DrillLegend
* Hit print (Ctrl+P), select "Print to File (PDF)" as the printer, select
  vehicle-interface_ASSY_BOT.pdf, paper size A4, scale factor 1.  Click OK.
* Deselect all layers, select only the following layers: (1)Top, (16)Bottom,
  (17)Pads, (18)Vias, (20)Dimension, (21)tPlace, (22)bPlace, (25)tNames,
  (51)tDocu, (52)bDocu
* Zoom in so that PCB is centered in the screen and fills the window as much as
  possible.
* Select File->Export->Image.  Select vehicle-interface.brd.png.  Set
  "Resolution" to 600.  Set "Area" to "Window".
* In the schematic window, hit print (Ctrl+P), select "Print to File (PDF)" as
  the printer, select vehicle-interface.sch.pdf, paper size A4, scale factor 1,
  page limit 1  Click OK.
* In the schematic window, select File->Export->Partlist.  Select
  "vehicle-interface.parts.txt".  Click OK.
* Manually compare "vehicle-interface.parts.txt" to "vehicle-interface.bom.xls".
  Make sure the two lists are consistent.
* Open "CHANGELOG.xls".  Update the file to reflect the new revision.
* Create a zip archive with the following files (at least):
    * vehicle-interface.pdf
    * vehicle-interface.brd.png
    * vehicle-interface_ASSY_TOP.pdf
    * vehicle-interface_ASSY_BOT.pdf
    * vehicle-interface.tsp
    * vehicle-interface.top
    * vehicle-interface.smt
    * vehicle-interface.smb
    * vehicle-interface.slk
    * vehicle-interface.oln
    * vehicle-interface.gpi
    * vehicle-interface.dxf
    * vehicle-interface.drl
    * vehicle-interface.dri
    * vehicle-interface.drd
    * vehicle-interface.bsp
    * vehicle-interface.bsk
    * vehicle-interface.bot
    * vehicle-interface.bom.xls
    * vehicle-interface.sch
    * vehicle-interface.brd
    * CHANGELOG.xls
